CHAPTERS IX and X of I Corinthians
This is a LibriVox recording. All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain.
For more information or to volunteer, please visit LibriVox.org.
Recording by Simon Wainwright
The first epistle of Paul to the Corinthians, King James Version, Chapter 9
Am I not an apostle? Am I not free? Have I not seen Jesus Christ our Lord?
Are not ye my work in the Lord?
If I be not an apostle unto others, yet doubtless, I am to you,
for the seal of mine apostleship are ye in the Lord.
Mine answer to them that do examine me is this.
Have we not power to eat and to drink?
Have we not power to lead about a sister, a wife, as well as other apostles,
and as the brethren of the Lord and Cephas?
Or I only and Barnabas have not we power to forbear working?
Who goeth a warfare any time at his own charges?
Who planteth a vineyard and eateth not of the fruit thereof?
Or who feedeth a flock and eateth not of the milk of the flock?
Say I these things as a man?
Or sayeth not the law the same also?
For it is written in the law of Moses,
Thou shalt not muzzle the mouth of the ox that treadeth out the corn.
Doth God take care for oxen?
Or sayeth he it altogether for our sakes?
For our sakes, no doubt.
This is written that he that ploweth should plow in hope,
and that he that thresheth in hope should be partaker of his hope.
If we have sown unto you spiritual things,
is it a great thing if we shall reap your carnal things?
If others be partakers of this power over you,
are not we rather, nevertheless,
we have not used this power but suffer all things,
lest we should hinder the gospel of Christ?
Do ye not know that they which minister about holy things
live of the things of the temple,
and they which wait at the altar are partakers with the altar?
Even so have the Lord ordained
that they which preach the gospel should live of the gospel.
But I have used none of these things,
neither have I written these things,
that it should be so done unto me.
For it were better for me to die
than that any man should make my glorying void.
For though I preach the gospel,
I have nothing to glory of.
For necessity is laid upon me,
yea, woe is unto me if I preach not the gospel.
For if I do this thing willingly,
I have a reward.
But if against my will,
a dispensation of the gospel is committed unto me.
What is my reward then?
Verily, that when I preach the gospel,
I may make the gospel of Christ without charge,
that I abuse not my power in the gospel.
For though I be free from all men,
yet have I made myself servant unto all,
that I might gain the more.
And unto the Jews I became as a Jew,
that I might gain the Jews
to them that are under the law,
as under the law,
that I might gain them that are under the law,
to them that are without law as without law,
being not without law to God,
but under the law to Christ,
that I might gain them that are without law.
To the weak became I as weak,
that I might gain the weak.
I am made all things to all men,
that I might by all means save some.
And this I do for the gospel's sake,
that I might be partaker thereof with you.
Know ye not that they which run in a race run all,
but one receiveth the prize?
So run, that ye may obtain.
And every man that striveth for the mastery
is temperate in all things.
Now, they do it to obtain a corruptible crown,
but we in incorruptible.
I therefore so run,
not as uncertainly,
so fight I,
not as one that beateth the air.
But I keep under my body
and bring it into subjection,
lest that by any means,
when I have preached to others,
I myself should be a cast away.
Moreover, brethren,
I would not that ye should be ignorant
how that all our fathers were under the cloud
and all passed through the sea,
and were all baptized unto Moses in the cloud
and in the sea,
and did all eat the same spiritual meat,
and did all drink of the same spiritual drink,
for they drank of that spiritual rock
that followed them,
and that rock was Christ.
But with many of them God was not well pleased,
for they were overthrown in the wilderness.
Now, these things were our examples
to the intent we should not lust after evil things,
as they also lusted.
Neither be ye idolers,
as were some of them,
as it is written,
the people sat down to eat and drink
and rose up to play.
Neither let us commit fornication
as some of them committed
and fell in one day,
three in twenty thousand.
Neither let us tempt Christ,
as some of them also tempted
and were destroyed of serpents.
Neither murmur ye,
as some of them also murmured
and were destroyed of the destroyer.
Now, all these things happened unto them
for in samples,
and they are written for our admonition
upon whom the ends of the world are come.
Wherefore, let him that thinketh he standeth
take heed, lest he fall.
There hath no temptation taken you,
but such as is common to man.
But God is faithful,
who will not suffer you to be tempted
above that ye are able.
But will with the temptation
also make a way to escape,
that ye may be able to bear it.
Wherefore, my dearly beloved,
flee from idol-tree.
I speak as to wise men,
judge ye what I say.
The cup of blessing which we bless,
is it not the communion
of the blood of Christ?
The bread which we break,
is it not the communion
of the body of Christ?
For we being many are one bread
and one body,
for we are all partakers of
that one bread.
Behold, Israel after the flesh,
are not they which eat
of the sacrifices partaker
of the altar?
What say I then,
that the idol is anything,
or that which is offered
in sacrifice to idols is anything?
But I say, that the things
which the Gentiles sacrifice,
they sacrifice to devils
and not to God.
And I would not that ye
should have fellowship
with devils.
Ye cannot drink the cup of the Lord
and the cup of devils.
Ye cannot be partakers
of the Lord's table
and of the table of devils.
Do we provoke the Lord
to jealousy?
Are we stronger than he?
All things are lawful for me,
but all things are not expedient.
but all things edified not.
Let no man seek his own,
but every man another's wealth.
Whatsoever is sold in the shambles
that eat,
asking no question for conscious sake.
For the earth is the Lord's
and the fullness thereof.
If any of them that believe not
bid you to a feast
and ye be disposed to go,
whatsoever is set before you eat,
asking no question for conscious sake.
But if any man say unto you,
this is offered in sacrifice unto idols,
eat not, for his sake that showed it,
and for conscious sake.
For the earth is the Lord's
and the fullness thereof.
Conscious I say,
not thine own, but of the other.
For why is my liberty judged
of another man's conscious?
For if I by grace be a partaker,
why am I evil spoken of
for that for which I give thanks?
Whether therefore ye eat or drink
or whatsoever ye do,
do all to the glory of God.
Give none offense,
neither to the Jews, nor to the Gentiles,
nor to the Church of God.
Even as I please all men in all things,
not seeking mine own,
profit but the profit of many,
that they may be saved.